# Preface
This guide is open source (forked from ErCiccione guide) and maintained by Andre Patta, from Electroneum. If you have suggestions or wish to contribute to the development of this guide, feel free to open Pull Requests or Issues on the
GitHub repository where this document is maintained: [github.com/andrepatta/etn-desktop-wallet-guide](https://github.com/andrepatta/etn-desktop-wallet-guide).
&nbsp;

## Translations
This document will be localized into several languages. You will find all available translations in the [dedicated section on GitHub](https://github.com/andrepatta/etn-desktop-wallet-guide/tree/master/translations) after the next version (1.6) of this guide will be released.

## Windows Preparation
If you are on Windows:

+ Make sure that your antivirus does not block the program.

Cryptograph functions are included in the **Electroneum Desktop Wallet** software and, as a result, most anti virus software flags the **Electroneum Desktop Wallet** files as malware and subsequently quarantines them. Fortunately, however, there's a fairly trivial work around you can use. That is:

+ Create a new directory / folder.
+ Open your AV software.
+ Add an exception for the newly created directory / folder. Put differently, you have to whitelist the newly created directory / folder.
+ Extract the .zip file (in case of Windows) or the .tar.bz2 file (in case of Linux or Mac OS X) to the whitelisted directory / folder.
  
  *Note:* if you're using Windows and did not install custom anti virus software, Windows Defender is, most likely, acting as active anti virus software.

+ The first time you start the wallet you must give permission to connect to the network via a pop-up. Check the appropriate boxes and click `Allow access`.

## Shortcuts
Some shortcuts are available to make the user experience with the GUI easier:
&nbsp;

**On all operating systems:**  
Press `Ctrl` to view each page shortcut. Press `ctrl+"shortcut"` to go to that page
&nbsp;

**On Linux/Windows:**  
`ctrl + tab` -> go to the next page  
`ctrl + shift + tab` -> go to the previous page
&nbsp;

**On macOS:**  
`cmd + tab` -> go to the next page  
`cmd + shift + tab` -> go to the previous page
